# VisualGraphics
This is a demonstration of the final 3D rendering project using OpenGL. It contains a scene of an ottoman, a bike pump, two puzzle boxes, and a glass of water.

How do I approach designing software?
  Desinging software begins with understanding the overall needs and funcitonality of the end product. In this case we were looking for a 3D rendered scene that utilizes materials, textures, lighting, and OpenGL to create a 3D scene. The camera funcitons are also a vital piece of the project and has a multitudfe of functionality. After understanding the needs, the project is broken down into methods with their various connectoins made clear in a UML diagram. After these are created the work on coding can begin! A more complex project may require more planning, but this particular project can be handled witht this level of planning and design.
What new design skills has your work on the project helped you to craft?
  Creating and rendering 3D shapes was an interesting process to learn. In addition learning how to texture these shapes with different photographs was gratifying. From there, creating materials for light to play off of and getting more of a realistic look really began to bring the scene to life. Lighting the scene was the final step in creating a fully realized 3D space with objects that look like the real deal. The camera functions were also important to this project and its full functionality taught me a lot about viewing a scene, moving through it, and the differences between orthoscopic and perspective views.
What design process did you follow for your project work?
  I followed a very simple SDLC. I made a list of requirements and build a class UML diagram to address the needs of the project. From here its about building and connecting these classes to make the final scene.
How could tactics from your design approach be applied in future work?
  A modular design, clear commenting, and modern code are all specifications that will go into future work. In addition, each of the requirements listed above can be utilized in future 3D rendering projects. Creating 3D objects, textures, materials, and lighting setups can be made to work with future projects.
How did iteration factor into your development?
  Iteration was used to turn this project in over a period of weeks. First we chose the 3D scene and created a single plane and object. From there I created textures for the objects and added more shapes to the scene. The next step was to create materials for the lights to play off of, creating a more realistic scene. Finally lighting was added to the scene, brining the textured and materials to life.
How do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future educational and professional pathways?
While I do not plan on making my future in computer graphics and visualization, this course gave me a great appeciation for the art. Learning how meshes form, how objects are presented in scenes, how camera movement functions, and all of the small things that bring a scene to life built my ability to delve into complex projects that take many iterations to get juust right. 
